Title: What we Should stand for after we Know what we stand on

Prologue: Foundational Faith

What are the pillars built on the Foundation of Christ, the Word?
I'm not going to bury the lede: Man, Woman, Marriage, and Children.

Introduction: The Culture and the Cult
  
  Politics is Downstream of Culture - Andrew Breitbart
  A Culture will always be defined by its Cult. - Nicholas Denny
  A Cult is defined as a system of religious veneration and devotion directed toward
  a particular figure or object. It comes to us from the Latin Cultus (Worship),
  which has the root cult- (inhabited (from colere, a precursor to colony),
  cultivated (agriculture), worshipped). This set of semantic meanings stems from
  the Roman idea that what and how you worshiped, where you lived, and what you
  cultivated were all necessarily interconnected. We can see a similar thing in
  the children of Israel before they arrived at the Promised land: where they 
  lived (around the tabernacle), what they cultivated (sheep, oxen, and other 
  animals), and what (Yahweh) and how (animal sacrifice) they worshipped.
  
  Within every culture is a cult, and every culture will eventually bare fruit
  consistent with that cult. For the place you live, the things you cultivate,
  and the things you worship will always be connected together and inform the eventual 
  destiny of that culture. Jesus spoke of this when he said: (Matthew 7:15-20). 

  So I ask you: what do we see in our culture? What do we see as the fruits brought
  about by the prophets of the age? 

  Man: Toxic Masculinity, Emasculation, Emotionless, Workaholic, Substance Abuse, Porn
  Woman: Feminism, Masculation, Radical Egalitarianism, Transgenderism
  Marriage: Divorce, Gay "Marriage", "Just a Legal Contract between consenting adults"
  Babies/Children: Abortion, Fur-babies, orphanages, single parenthood, adoption, 
  Global Warming, Convenience, Human kind is a cancer

  Our culture values flourishing: things like economic growth and academic education,
  more than families, and is it any surprise that we have neither flourishing nor 
  families the way we would like? 
  
  However, and I'm sure this goes without saying because I told you what I was 
  teaching about tonight, we must not merely stand against something, we have to 
  know what we stand for.

  Thus, the most worrisome question we have facing us today is this: have we fixated
  so much on the culture around us, with its distastefulness and evil, but neglected
  the examination of the culture within our homes, our churches, and our families. 
  What/who do we really worship? Do our hearts conform to the Heart of God? Have we really 
  been transformed and had our minds renewed? Are we doing what God, Our Father, Our 
  Husband, wants for his people: His children? 

Exodus 19: God reminds them of Egypt and his Deliverance. Says he rescued and brought them to
himself. He calls on them to form a covenant with him. They agree. He says they must
consecrate themselves for the "ceremony."

1.   A Mikvah מקווה, a place of ceremonial cleansing – Yahweh commands the people to cleanse 
     themselves and make themselves ready for the marriage (Exodus 19:10-14).
2.   A Chuppah חוּפָּה, a place of covering, a canopy – not only does Yahweh cover the entire 
     mountain with a cloud, but Hebrew scripture can literally be translated “they stood 
     under the mountain” (Exodus 19:17).
3.   A Ketubah כְּתוּבָּה, a written contract or marriage agreement – the two copies of the Ten 
     Commandments; one copy for the husband, one for the wife.  Yahweh trusted his bride 
     so fully both copies were given for her to hold and to keep (Exodus 20:1-17).
4.   A Sign אוֹת, a visible, tangible expression of the love – Yahweh institutes the Sabbath 
     as a weekly sign that he and his bride belong to each other and enjoy each other’s presence 
     (Exodus 20:1-17, Exodus 31:16-17).

Exodus 24 the Covenant/Wedding Ceremony: Not "Till Death do us part," but "If I part, death unto me."






 

